# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2021-11-10T16:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team


## Present
* [Ruben Verborgh](https://ruben.verborgh.org/profile/#me)
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Oz
* TimBL
* Alain Bourgeois
* Jackson
* Kay
* Virginia
* Marrelle


---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* name


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics


### Marrelle activity

* MB: Will continue to volunteer to Solid Team. But I can't promise to moderate the meetings. Can't commit just yet. I won't host Solid World but KellyO can join Solid team and provide logistics support for Solid World. So, not admin. It'll be a Solid World role title. If there is a relationship with Solid World and Team ???
* SC: Will the Solid world agenda be reviewed/approved by Solid Team?
* MB: Normally gets approved by Tim, Ruben, and Oz. The only tough part is the way the SW goes and be effective, it may be difficult to get everyone's views in. As long as there is a hosted feedback session.
* RV: I'm happy to take step back because I'm already close ot people.
* TB: People are legitimately concerned about what goes into the agenda. so we can have a reasonable balance. What might be a concern is that companies get to speak and there may be conflicts. Ruben and I have been putting a lot of time into solid ecosystem roadmap, you can imagine SW is that in the background. But the parts of SW map that we dont' talk about ??? I think some people are asking for implicity or explictly.. while they like the Team to produce it, they like to still engage.
* MB: Since I won't moderate regularly, let's see with Kelly for feedback. Agree with Sarven and Tim. I'll try my best to stay neutral. Sometimes there are times when we are all busy. Outreaching is tough. We can only get so many people to speak.
* MB: Sarven you're a baby angel, thank you.
* MB: We can invite KellyO to have a conversation on how he can make it more inclusive for the Solid Team to make the decision.
* OO: seeing incredible amount of time you (MB) to put in, I'd like this team to put in input but we shouldn't be blockers. feedback has to be done promptly. As MB said, finding presenters every month is tough. If the ST is more invovled, we need to be more involved. It is not just giving opinions and other people have to figure out. we have to be able to take on that responsibility. Will be more challenging with MB not leading it.
* MB: I'm not sure who will take over or what the responsibilities will be.
* TB: There are many roles - roles traditionally are for big enough teams. We can split things.
* MB: The kind of responsibilities that .. will use the social media accounts. You'll see an invite from my new address.

ACTION: Will PR support.md role at solid/process and invite him to solid/team.


### DEIT strategies
* MB: In the process of making our 2022 plans for the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Team. If you want to see us do something in particular, please submit an issue. https://github.com/solid/deit/issues . Many things we can all do in the community for DEI space. You can all join any of the team meetings.


### Meeting F2F
* MB: Wouldn't it be great to F2F?
* TB: At W3C - running for 25 years or so - .. and they're all passionat to make the Web a better place. There are alumni groups - still with the same spirit., and every now and then there is a get together.


### Solid LinkedIn
* MB: We can post stuff eg. virginia's post
* TT: In the SolidOS we are thinking about - some documentation materials in the form of slides, and also videos - on how to start with SolidOS. We don't know where to host this?
* MB: We have a Solid Vimeo - we can add stuff there if you send the video. We can also do posts about it and .. via 
* TB: Why are we using LinkedIn?
* MB: It is a form of communication - where there is traffic and movement, LinkedIn, Reddit, Twitter..
* TB: If you start by openness activists, its tradition is pretty much independent stuff whereas LinkedIn... I quit LinkedIn. They sent me a msg where I could only rea dit if I have an account. It is a big silo. If we posted on Facebook.. everyone would say "we thought you are decentralised".. ??? is not such a silo. Should we have all linkedIn references to Solid Pods?
* OO: Philosophy aside, this sounds like a marketing thig. A lot of people get their stuff through LinkedIn.. we need to go to where people are. A lot of people get their tech news from there. We odn' thav eto be happy about it but it'd not good if we 
* TB: did not know that. will accept that.
* MB: especially ifyou want to invite diversity into your space we need to go where people are.
* TB: if we don't go to ??? alumni mailing list..
* TB: Used to use Slidy at W3C. you can link to it. if there is a better version than slidy!
* SC: Example: https://csarven.ca/presentations/linked-research-decentralised-web is using dokieli (includes [Shower](https://github.com/shower/shower) with HTML+RDFa. Hosted on NSS. It has its own inbox etc..


### Meeting template
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/template.md

* SC: ...


### Git access manage the stuff in a pod
* TB: we can't just go back to git repo. so we might start doing some of the quick fixes on the server. sort of export files from git directly or put git functionality on the server.
* SC: there may be some issues on that already
* TB: Certainly in the roadmap.
