# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2022-11-09T16:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-team>
* Chat: <https://gitter.com/solid/team>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/team>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [Jackson Morgan](https://jackson.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)
* Alain Bourgeois
* Timea Turdean
* Jeff Zucker
* Osmar Olivo

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent.
  Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone,
  recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of
  Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md),
  [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional
  Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across
  disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and
  meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Jackson Morgan

---

## Topics

### Meeting time

VB: Exceptionally we'll keep this time today but reminder it will be an hour
earlier next month. VB: We were using CET and now we're using UTC. VB: Alain and
Vincent own the calendar invite

### Repo security policy

URL: <https://github.com/solid/process/issues/310>

VB: Proposed by SC. VB: The issue was raised by Pete Edwards. He's suggesting
that we add security.md to other repositories as best practice. There are two
questions:

* Is there a single communication for all repos for security concerns?
* What is the process around managing this communication channel?

ACTION: VB to remind ppl to add comments on the issue above directly.

### Start a translations project

URL: <https://github.com/solid/team/issues/25>

VB: I volunteer to lead efforts. VB: We've had several volunteers for spanish
translations. I've volunteered to lead the project since I have experience in
translations. VB: I'll need a repository, but I don't have access to create it.
VB: I think we need to revise the roles to be sure that the role they've been
assigned still makes sense. VB: I will ask who is available to review and do
quality checks. We have had people volunteering to translate without us having a
call. The strategy would be to let someone who has technical knowledge to review
and see which items are good candidates. OZ: Would this be for SolidProject.org
or other things? VB: People are volunteering for anything, but SolidProject.org
is a good start. OZ: I have a lot questions there. I16n is a good initiative,
but I'd like to think of well-scoped goals so that it doesn't become a dead
initiative. JZ: If we're translating the website then we need an ongoing
committment to keep it current. Getting spec reviewers would be a bit difficult.
And then thirdly. How do we get applications to be internationalized. VB: We'll
probably create at chat room for internationalization. I will submit a proposal
in the issues.

### Make sure the solidproject.org home page has pointers to all the relevant github organizations now we have split them, explaining the relationships

URL: chnages are recorded at <https://github.com/solid/team/issues/24> VB:
Proposed by TBL. Timbl: If people are looking for code to contribute to, we need
to have a list of repos. We used to say "go to the solid github" but now it's a
lot more complicated. There's nowhere with a list, so we need to do it on our
website. JM: Makes sense. Have a page on the website that lists all the repos
involved. TBL: We should have a sidebar on the homepage. JM: We used to have
Creators. JZ: I'm a creator as well, and all I've done is if someone submits a
PR, I'll review it and merge it, but the creators have not met as a group.
There's no plan for a website I'm aware of, so it makes sense to have a creators
meeting and reviving that. OZ: Can you loop me in to the creators? We can make
sure that the the right people are getting involved on the Inrupt side. JZ:
Virginia has a role in the creators to update the Translations TBL: Useful to
have creators for emergencies/problems. OZ: We need to do role reviews every six
months or so. Inrupt has people with expertise who can be of service to
revamping the website. JZ: You should be a creator! OZ: It's be Geocities 1995.
TBL: *enthusiastic thumbs up*

ACTION: Jeff to assemple the creators and add Oz in the process then tell
Jackson so he can update the roles.

ACTION: Jeff to tackle the extra page that mentions split out repos as from
<https://github.com/solid/team/issues/24>.

### New Roles for Authentication

VB: It would be useful for someone to evaluate existing roles and positions and
write up a proposal. JM: I will make a proposal for new roles. TimBL: We've got
a copied group at <https://solidproject.solidcommunity.net>

ACTION: Jackson to see about all the roles we currently have and make a proposal
that reflects the current situation better.

### Solid World Submissions

JM: Proposed by Jackson Morgan JM: Are submiisions checked/seen by those
checking that channel? If not being seen, should we take down the form?
Otherwise confusing. Process? VB: We should have an open process to review Solid
world submissions, more transparent so people are not discouraged. OZ: All the
submissions are generally being reviewed. Historically, we've tried to do
themes. If a talk doesn't blend in with a theme of other talks it stays on the
list until there is a time the talk has been selected. TimBL: The most exciting
thing is community updates. Learning what's new on a community basis. Anything
that shows there's progress is fun. TT: I want to make an unpopular statement.
How about we don't do Solid world anymore under the Solid organization, but
leave Inrupt to do the event. On the events page, we still have the obligation
to record all the events that happen in the world. VB: I don't think it's a bad
idea. I think if we do that it should be very clear that it is an Inrupt event.
Like label it as "Inrupt Solid World." If we keep it as a Solid event, then we
need a more clear/transparent process to deciding the theme. KO: To be honest, I
haven't looked at the typeform for a couple weeks. So, the process is I try to
get cohesive monthly themes together. People want to hear news about thing like
the BBC adopting Solid. That submission form is still the way to submit things.
I'm trying to get the newsletter back up and running. I'm sure it's been hard to
find because we don't have a channel to communicate. KO: I don't know what we
would get out of rebranding it an Inrupt thing. If it's an Inrupt webinar, it's
going to look different every month. But, the point is to highlight the most
interesting stuff in the Solid community. VB: I think those two things are not
at odds. We can still organize an event. We'd just make it clear that it's Solid
World organized by Inrupt. OZ: With the recent announcement Tim made about
having parts of the specification moving to a working group, this sounds very
much like a community group thing. Now that things are moving to a W3C entity,
we may have more bandwidth to have more events. With specification stuff moving
to the w3c. TimBl: I worry about calling it "Solid World run by Inrupt." We've
had problems about people assuming that things are arranged behind closed doors
organized by Inrupt. We need to have people giving talks about new ideas. Maybe
we could have more hackathons and meetups. OZ: My proposal would be to kick this
question three months. The new charter for the community group will become more
clear. VB: I have a question for Tim. Don't you think making it explicit who's
running it is good? TimBL: Well, I don't want it run behind closed doors. I
think the control over the content should be Solid. VB: I agree with Tim that
I'd rather have it run by the Solid Organization, but we need a transparent
process. JZ: I suppose that one way it could look like is you bring the
proposals in so that at least we have a say over it. TT: I just want to clarify
that this forum should not run Solid World because 1) We have a lot of things to
do. We don't keep up the the most basic things which is talking about roles. We
want to clean shop a bit. TimBL: If you're worried about load on the Solid Team
specifically. You're saying that we the people in this meeting don't get around
to everything we do, so we can't handle this. So maybe we need a Solid
PR/Communications group. KO: We do have communications.
<https://github.com/solid/process/pull/284>. And that is my role in the Solid
Team. We could have that if that's approved. JM: What gives the Working Group
more capacity? Oz: it is not capacity but it is focus: now it is doing to much.
The oversight is going to be done by W3C (ex: oversee panels and writing it all
up). It is not about etting more ppl but it is about doing less work.

CONCLUSION: readress it in 3 months again after we see the influence of the
Working Group.

### Transfer DevOps access of SolidProject.org to Inrupt

JM: Proposed by Jackson OZ: We are still in the process to reach out to Justin.

### Third Party app access update
<https://github.com/solid/team/issues/31>

JM: there are still a lot of ppl who did not respond to my emails. SHould the
process be that if they do not reply longer, I just remove the 3rd party aps or
don't touch them? TBL: move them to solid contrib TT: make a section on the page
named archived or old.
