# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2022-03-09T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team

## Present

- Justin B
- Ruben Verborgh
- Vincent
- Virginia Balseiro
- Jackson Morgan
- Kay Kim
- Kyra Assaad
- Tim Berners-Lee
- Timea
- Jeff


---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Use panel chat and repository. Queue in call to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribe Selection


## Agenda

### Solid team listing (what is official list)

Timea: is it https://github.com/orgs/solid/teams or the website https://solidproject.org/team or https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/administrators.md#solid-administrators -> some places need some updates.

Resolution: (Justin/Ruben)
- https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/administrators.md#solid-administrators is the truth, this is where you make a PR
- then the website needs to mirror this https://solidproject.org/team
- and it needs to be made operational on GitHub https://github.com/orgs/solid/teams 
- PR done: https://github.com/solid/process/pull/271

Tim: when updating the list, let's add instructions as to what else needs updating

Justin will check with Marrelle to see if she can be removed

### Github repository cleanup

Timea: I have a memory that there was already a cleanup of solid GitRepos but not sure (related to a issue on our repo: solid/team#11)

RV: Re-visiting https://github.com/solid/ cleanup and admin to only have authorized projects in the namespace. i.e., solid/process#262

Resolution: github.com/solid should probably only be repositories that the Solid Team manages.

Action: RV to make a PR

### Code of Conduct Submissions

Timea: who receives CoC emails (manager@solidproject.org)? Do we need to discuss about the latest received CoC related email, or is that in another forum?

On the point of CoC there is a issue opened in DEIT: https://github.com/solid/deit/issues/13

There's a bit about putting together a CoC committee in these training slides: 
https://files.frameshiftconsulting.com/codeofconducttraining.pdf

Resolution: 
- on website set a list of people in a committee and tell people to email anyone they want -> todo Timea
- Oz, Alain, and Virginia volunteered to be for now in this committee
- Oz to reach out to Justin to update him
- People from DEIT can join this committee also anytime and people can rotate
- Oz to make sure there is a follow up on the latest incomig CoC request by meeting with the brand new committee members. 


### Brief Update for Solidproject.org migration
- work is underway
- Jackson: team knows its action items and nothing is needed from the group for now


### Content translations and accessibility

Sarven: Mentioned interest in community wanting to help with content translations before solid/solid#276 ( https://gitter.im/solid/team?at=61db55475ee4df335ad78b1b ) but forgot to include in the agenda. We should have a gameplan / process to integrate them. Same goes for contributions on content accessibility.
-> postponed topic
