# Solid Team Meeting 2022/06/08

    Date: 2022-06-08T15:00:00Z
    Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
    Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
    Repository: https://github.com/solid/team
    Status: Draft


## Attendance
 - Jackson Morgan
 - Virginia Balseiro
 - Timea Turdean
 - Osmar Olivo
 - Kay Kim
 - Jeff Zucker
 - Alain Bourgeois
 - Kyra Assaad

## hosting a registry for Solid intro code tutorials (mentioned last month).

 - Example started of here: https://timea.solidcommunity.net/HelloWorld/
 - Timea: Asking for feedback. Do you find it useful, and should it be integrated into the website
 - Jeff Zucker: I think it's great, we should get it in front of more people
 - Jackson: There should be a loading indicator on the main page
 - Jeff: It should either go on SolidProject.org or have a link from SolidProject.org
 - Kyra: I think there is a space on the website that has a list of tutorials, so I can add it
 - Timea: There is an edit page. Should everyone be able to submit without login? Should there be a PR process? Solid doesn't have a PR process right now.
 - Kay: The sites are fine, but is this going to fall into the same problem where some apps are obsolete.
 - Timea: We could put other implementation details on the tutorials so we know which spec version the tutorial is for.
 - Jeff: With tutorials we need to be careful. We want to be sure everything on this page should work. Somebody should be responsible for checking them
 - Timea: We could have an automated script to delete tutorials
 - Jeff: Timeline isn't relevant. Tutorials should just keep working. It seems unfair to beginners to have bad tutorials.
 - Kay: Didn't Marelle create a process for how to do community curated tutorials? Was Ruben doing the github repo reorg?
 - Jeff: It doesn't seem to be that the repositories on SolidProejct.org have been updated, or the forum applications page.
 - Oz: I worked with Marelle on the original process and we were supposed to do an audit. Historically Marelle had those responsibilities. The fix is someone needs to take up ownership of these responsibilities.
 - Timbl: To get people to do things like that they don't need to be in this room.
 - Jackson: I'll review the apps. We'll set up a time to discuss it with Oz and Timea

## Grace Hopper Open Source Day application and helping out on 16th September

 - get volunteers, be more diverse. Details: https://ghc.anitab.org/programs-and-awards/open-source-day/
 - Timea: This would be a great way to bring people into the solid ecosystem. Unfortunately I can't present because I'm not in the US. It's the 16th of September. It will talk to Tim about it as well and see if we can come up with some content.

## Who is the @SolidAdmin user on the forum and how should we handle a user's request to delete all of their posts?
 - Timbl: Check with Kelly
 - Jeff: There's a user that frequently posts climate denial, covid denial, anti-un videos. They've been flagged and removed and he's upset about it and wants his log on removed.  He also wants all of his 768 posts removed.  It is unclear whether the posts to a forum are covered by the GDPR.
 - Action item: Ask Kelly, need to make sure the @Solid admin goes somewhere

## transition solidcommunity.net from NSS to CSS
 - TT: How does the team feel about this?
 - Jackson: IDP in NSS stores data differently -> integration written is necessary -> username and password like all of the data to maintain data to password reset, public private key stuff...
 - Alain: 10k accounts on NSS have no email -> CSS needs email.
 - Tim: that is not good
 - Jackson: am in favor for transition but need to find someone too put in the work to do the transition
 - Tim: CSS team is one place we can ask
 - Jeff: That is not maybe mandatory and they could accommodate us with the IDP.
 - Tim: if we use SolidOS - if they log on we can make a warning - you do not have an email. It is hard for us to know how many are not going to be used; could look at their filesystem, if it was not modified in 3 months we maybe should not worry about them. We can say on the chat ->if you do not have any email you should get one.
 - Alain: some Pods have same emails on NSS
 - Tim: why is that a problem?
 - Alain: CSS does not allow the same email for different pods.
 - Jackson: if we ask people for change - we need to do some technical changes - overlapping email, no email - set up an interface that will recognize this... and ask for input from the user. I would say it is probably easier to build the technical implementation that does the auth as NSS does than to figure the auth edge cases.
 - Tim: You can also make the argument that when a person makes a user they use the same email... so you can argue that is should maybe be a server requirement.
 - Jackson: I know how to do it technically but I am bound up with other things.
 - Timea: take note of these and to be continued...
 
 ## MISC
 - Jackson: Are you planning to go to DWeb camp? End of August?
 - Jeff: I am considering.
 - Tim: I have to fit it in... I have only 3 free days around there.
