# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2022-05-11T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team
* Status: Draft


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)


---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* name


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### Solid World
#### Investigate setup for email notification.
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-13.md#solid-world-status-update--transparency

>ACTION: Investigate setup for email notification.


#### Contact methods to speak at Solid World
* SC: https://gitter.im/cern-solid/community?at=6266a0776b912423209cc878
* SC: Can we streamline communication, e.g., at least provide GitHub PR as a request to speak?


### Communication Role
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-13.md#solid-support-role

>ACTION: KO, to PR process/role.


### solidproject.org listing all repos
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-13.md#applying-the-proposed-guidelines-to-repositories-under-githubcomsolid-22

>ACTION: RV to make a webpage on solidproject.org that lists all of the repos.

* RV: Review of repository move


### Tracking community contributions for content translations
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/issues/25

* SC: Follows action of https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-13.md#community-contributions-to-translate-content . Just awareness, we don't need to discuss this now, but do contribute if you can.


### Support for Solid meetup in other cities/countries
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-13.md#support-for-solid-meetup-in-other-citiescountries

>ACTION: Timea to dig for previous info



### Access Controls

#### Members of the W3C Solid Community Group need appropriate access controls to repositories
* SC: Panel teams are not practical or maintainable. We only care about the CG - that's what the W3C CLA/CEPC, Solid CoC are about. Flat organisation.
* SC: For repos under solid/ , solid-contrib/ , or anywhere else that pertains to the CG.
* SC: Do we need a Solid CG Team and give them Read access to all Work Items? Can this be synchronised/maintained e.g., matching CG membership? It will limit contributions to Work Items to CG members. Makes sense given CLA expectation.
* SC: Editors/Authors of Work Item repositories often (in practice) need to have Maintain access.
* SC: I can create repos for the CG provided need/documentation, e.g., meeting minutes. And/Or Admin Team will promptly.
* SC: PROPOSAL:
  * Every CG member will have "Read" access on CG repos (GitHub).
  * Authors of Work Items to have "Write" access.
  * Editors of Work Items to have "Maintain" access.
  * CG Chair to have "Admin" access.
* SC: Anything else? Is "Triage" actually useful? Is any repo even using that?


#### Members of the Solid Team should have appropriate access controls to their work
* RV: Relevant https://github.com/solid/team/issues/27


### Publishing Solid Community Survey
* VB: how to publish last year's Solid Community Survey (a D3 project) under solidproject.org/survey


### Content Backups and Archiving
#### Gitter Chat
* SC: Do we have a process/scripts to backup or archive Gitter chats under the solid org? If not, I propose to have this in place and run regularly using the Gitter API. There is substantial information there that we need to preserve whether we stick to Gitter or not in a long enough timeline. Prepare for the worst case... (Gitter can disappear tomorrow).


### Hosting a registry for Solid intro code tutorials
* TT: Example started of here: https://timea.solidcommunity.net/HelloWorld/
