# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2022-01-12T16:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team
* Status: Draft


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [name](url)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* name


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics


### Support Role at solid/process
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2021-11-10.md#marrelle-activity


### Solid World Process
* SC: Document Solid Team's minutes/decisions involving Solid World in solid/team (chat/repo)... towards transparency, avoid basic conflicts (e.g., the new timeslot for Solid World overlaps with Notifications Panel, and there was no discussion on record how or why that came to be.)


### Meetings in Calendar
* SC: I've created https://csarven.solidcommunity.net/solidproject.ics which includes all panel and team meetings -- I don't know where it should live long term but I hope we can resolve that in the next meeting.
* SC: We could perhaps have a separate .ics for each event and one .ics that has all.
* SC: Not sure if invitations are necessary. Would importing a calendar work better long term? We'll have a canonical location to update this stuff - Anyone in the community can look that up.


### Ad-hoc Topic Proposals for the Solid Team Agenda
* SC: FWIW, I've been tagging messages with `#solidteamagenda` in the solid/team channel for potential topics for Team meetings. Helps to throw them into the agenda when we can.
* SC: The Gitter search function works. Just input "#solidteamagenda" (or without hash)


### Solid Protocol Publication and Access
* SC: Following the ACTION to a PROPOSAL I made here: https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2021-12-22.md#solid-protocol-publication-and-access
* SC: The publication of the next release of the Solid Protocol specification (i.e., "v1.0", "~REC", or equivalent) MUST be accessible from a Solid server, along with all other resources under https://solidproject.org/ . To make it so we need commitment (issue/milestone..) and coordination from everyone that may be involved (Solid Team, server/app developers..).
* SC: Relevant for any asset being published at solidproject.org (including Solid World material; event announcements, slides...) going forward.


#### Migrating solidproject.org to CSS
* JB: ..


#### GitHub Action for a Solid Client
* JB: github action for a solid client that can be used (e.g. for above) to securely deploy items from git repo to a solid server


#### CSS Module to Read-Write to Repository
* SC: Noting for awareness, no need to discuss: https://github.com/solid/community-server/issues/1114 .


### Adding Community Videos
* TT: vimeo account and adding other community videos (know-how transfer form solidOS)
