# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2022-02-10
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team

## Present
* Jackson
* Kay
* Oz
* Tim
* Timea
* Virginia
* Kyra
* Alain
* Jeff
* Kelly

### Scribes
* Jeff

## Topics

### Outstanding PRs

* Kyra - There are many outstanding PRs on solidproject.org, esp. Solid World
* Kyra - Volunteers to keep an eye on them

### Github domain name

* Virginia - Sarven mentioned  https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-organization-settings/verifying-or-approving-a-domain-for-your-organization, not sure which domain this applies to, guessing solidproject.org
* Jackson - solidproject will be moving off github so not a priority

### Role of this team

* Timea : what is role of admin"?
* Tim : "admin" - from the Latin "doing the little things"
* Oz : general group roles are overseeing github, solidproject.org, etc. there are no specific roles within the teams.
* Oz volunteers to compile alist of what teams do.
* Kay : https://solidproject.org/team page needs review.
* Jeff : team descriptions should be short and reusable so we can add them to an RDF for eventual use in multiple places
* Timea : https://github.com/solid/team/projects/1 can be a place we record team tasks
* Tim or we could use a Tracker on the team pod

### CERN Implementer/Spec discussion

* Timea : report back for CERN meeting - there was concern over mismatch between spec 0.9 and servers, ended with positive note
* Tim : 0.9 is the spec and its important that it be followed, we can't say "it isn't 1.0 so we don't need to follow it";  servers may not be able to implement every detail but that divergence is expectable and hopefully minimal
* Jeff : server implementers should have very clear statements about which parts of the spec they don't support
* Timea : maybe we should have a solid project meeting for people to be able to discuss problems, take deep dive into code
* Jackson : can restart solid networking meetings for that purpose
* Oz : Networking is great but we need clear communication.  For example, there was no big splash when 0.9 came out.  The implementers meeting was great, we need more like that where devs can ask server implementers and spec writers questions.
* Timea - publicize e.g. 0.9 with blog ost or forum ... or latest update page.  
* Kelly & Kay : point out that "This Month in Solid" is the appropriate place for publicizing. Maybe Sarven or Ruben could write something on 0.9 for it.

### SP.org revisions

* Kay/Kyra : It's hard to find This Month in Solid
* Tim : Maybe an always visible site-map menu on the left?
* Jeff : Is it time for a Creators meeting to discuss sp.org plans?

