# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2022-04-13T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Virginia Balseiro
* Osmar Olivo
* Kelly O'Brien
* Jackson Morgan
* Ruben Verborgh
* Kay Kim
* Alain Bourgeois
* Justin B
* Timea Turdean
---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### Solid World status update / transparency
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2022-01-12.md#solid-world-process

* KO: SolidWorld April is tomorrow. Joint presentation from VRT (broadcasting in Flanders). They've beeng working with a startup there with Datavillage. Concept of improved viewer - audience can eg link to their spotify, and VRT can link to stuff from their catalogue.
* KO: March SW mentioned Solid/Flanders. Trying to bring on Flanders to write up more details. In May, folks from data utility company will give a presentation. Will also update from Solid Lab.
* KO: Got a good backlog of people presenting. In the order they come in. Talked last week - women in medical research - personal health libraries. She didn't feel ready to present. Agreed to put it off a few months. Another women from e-NABLE Alliance pinged. Got Jackson Morgan for developer tools. Timea also suggested somebody using the Ember library (Aad). Tom@Digita also contacted. In the queue. Communication with Maria Dimou / CERN on student presenting. There is a Maria and Michal  They're part of the Open Hospitality Network - like decentralised AirBNB. They want to go back to that older model - room reservations on Solid.

* SC: What is the process of who presents?
* SC: Is the contents of the form where they apply accesible to the Solid Team?
* KO: I inheritetd from Marrelle. It is a pay per view account. What would be a process of decisions who presents? I am just trying to see where they are ready, to prepare them... I am hapyp to make it transparentm not sure what work we want to all do.

* SC: It depends on how they contact us: should is go through a private process or an openone like PR - or add their name to a text document, or create an issue "proposal to present". I understand in some cases some peopel want to stay private. What is teh best way in which people want to present their work - should that not be more open?
* KO: Some people get nervous about going public right away. Some people are unsure whether their project is Solid World worthy. I think it may cause a psychological barrier for some people.
* TT: I agree. What I noticed in some cases is that we may need to be proactive. Conversations start off with an email or go to that gorm. "Well, maybe, I'll keep you posted". Need to chase people in that sense. I've seen everybody that applies or wants ot present, they will give a slot. The question is when they will present / which topic.
* TT: For conferences/meetups, it is not an easy task. It usually doesn't fit into the process in my experience. With the normal processes you lose diversit, you still need to be proactive.
* KO: Is there an email alias that goes to everbody e.g. ,info@solidproject.org?
* JB: I'll check the alias list. There is a team@ but have to make sure it is current. We can use that or.. just as fast to have an alias for Solid World. And a smaller group can get added to that. Some people don't want the submissions to come to everybody. Both are fast to do.
* SC: For example: we have a way of having ppl making reports publicly or pritave by sending email. (can email committee) Question: should we allow both ways of communication - gitHub, solid worl gitter or email, forum. 
* VB: Could the form go to team email?
* KO: Can look at that..
* JB: Emails come through or goes into the system?
* KO: System but haven't spent time looking into configuring. How are the emails hosted?
* JB: We just use alias. Gets redirected to people's regular eamils. No restrictions. No new home or forwarded. Worth saying that SW has been managed well. That's a really good thing. I do think that transparency is a good thing but we should make sure the bits to imrpove transparency. Maintin high quality event. It is not broke so let's keep that in mind.
* VB: Seems like it is possible to configure in typeform: https://www.typeform.com/help/a/set-up-respondent-notifications-360052328691/
* RV: Can we have an action item?

ACTION: Investigate setup for email notification.

* TT: Just to clarify: This is transparency for Soldi Team or for Solid Community?
* SC: To the community.
* VB: TT, can you clarify?
* TT: If it is enough to team@ .. then it is transparent to the team. Or for the whole community - it may be hard because we need to be proactive to find speakers.
* SC: This consolidates it for me. 


### Solid Support role
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2021-11-10.md#marrelle-activity

* SC: Can we follow-up on process for Support role?
* KO: Agreed. Limited access stuff to 'support'
* JB: KO, if you PR to README on Solid process or make a section for Solid World.. Admined by eg. Communication role. There is another markdown file for specific roles. Just a table.
* SC: +1 to Communication role. There are others that share.. e.g. TT and perhaps others.

ACTION: KO, to PR process/role.


### Applying the proposed guidelines to repositories under github.com/solid #22
URL: https://github.com/solid/team/issues/22

* RV: In the last meting we decided we'll have github.com/solid/ which will have official specs, process etc docs. Official team cmmunication. Everything else will move to separate orgs. The last ACTION for me was to propose a process to make it happen in that issue 22. What I need from the Team is an okay from the team. We can continue executing. I have adjusted based on their suggestion. Repositories that are archived will be moved right away. Other repos will get a text telling this repo will be moved - wherever they want. If not, they'll move to solid-contrib. I wanted to check with you if there are suggestions and to start executing.
* RV: We'll follow-up with people on repos like test-suite.
* AB: There are ??? on Solid OIDC libs. (https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/, https://github.com/solid/oidc-rs)
* RV: They'll move to github.com/solid-contrib .
* AB: Who wil be responsible of that. It looks like it is abandoned. I'm a bit lost about that.
* RV: For those repos, I'll create an issue.
* JM: We really shouldn't be using those {technical reasons}.
* RV: Something else could happen. Move to another org to move those libs to. That'd be good for NSS?
* AB: I need help from someone - I'm not able to decide alone. Anyone can give me a hand? Which libs I can bring to the org.
* RV: For those specific libs we can talk about it.
* AB: Seemed abandoned and I'm the only one using them.

* SC: Were there any objections from anyone? I thought Tim had some comments? Where they resoved? Are they still open?
* RV: Couple of concerns came indeed but didn't make a decision. But made a decision to move. Th einput that I've taken into account is on how to move. This is a text that says this is solid and so on but nothing on the process .. Anyhting relevant has been taken into consideration.
* AB: Only remaining thing for some place where we can link to all those repos. So they can understand... something like solid-awesome.
* RV: pRefer solid-awesome or a page on the website?
* AB: No preference
* RV: I'd add an item to the list where peopl can find them.
* AB: Would be a good idea .. for the community. There is a reorg but it is still part of the community.

ACTION: RV to make a webpage on solidproject.org that lists all of the repos.


### Code of Conduct Update
URL: https://github.com/solid/process/pull/275

* VB: We had a PR to update the CoC and it was merged but had questions as to what the required approves are for the CoC. IMO, it should be TimBL and also the CoC Committee. Would like to know what everoyne else thinks.
* SC: +1 in that case.
* KK: +1
* KO: +1
* RV: +1
* TT: +1
* JM: +1
* VB: Any objections?
* SC: TimBL in Gitter chat said he is "okay" with it.

### Community contributions to translate content
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid/issues/276

* SC: Background: https://gitter.im/solid/team?at=61db55475ee4df335ad78b1b
* SC: Now and then there is someone in gitter chat, or in issues - I see people who want to help with content on website or specs with translations. We did not really have dandwith properly so far. How to take contributions and have a plan and get them involved without keep them waiting. What does the group think?
* VB: When we were doing the survey, we found some people don't code but dont' know how to contribute. For people that want to contribute with translations, that'd be great.
* RV: Great. Just a remark that. We should make sure that the content we give to them is final or close to final  I assume you thought of this but good to be explicit.
* SC: gret points to have in the minutes. For examples.For specs: snapshots are good to be translated. Other pages on solidproject.org might get changes but it will not be that frequent. There is need to have a technical procees: content into place, phisical docs in Github, have a /es/vision...
* AB: What do you expect for translations? General or apps? All are different. Reasoning can be different. A general document explaining the nouns but people have to go to the text - the reference language. I've already seen that d one and never worked. We may have general documents that is easier to explain the spirit. For things like apps, it would be strings to translate. Normally we are not translating the apps.
* VB: Comment about previous point. There are two things: have a list of good candidates for translations. And the other things that is not up to date with the original. We will want to review these translations - people can ask.
* SC: I've seen both:people who want to translate apps or docs. We can create an action to clarify. it is about how to waypoint people how to add translations. We need to figure out how to make it accessible later. 
* VB: I have experience in translations and in open source items. I can help.

ACTION: VB, SC to create issue tracking this.


### Support for Solid meetup in other cities/countries

* TT: Two new members in SolidOS team. One in particular keen on hosting in their city/Minneapolis https://www.meetup.com/minneapolis-solid-project/ . This activity made me think pre-covid, I heard there were meetups. He's been asking me for support / right text to advertise. What's your experience with this. Do we help these people. Second member is Missouri.

* SC: Mitzi was helping some members to do meetups. I do not know where that documentation is. Some od the repos could be archived - community or information repos... Look into (I cna help you find) Solid community was using teh w3c wiki space and we were including updates on meetups. There were meetups. Gitter history. 

* TT: that sounds good, a good strating point.
* AB: a google search can also help. Example: https://www.meetup.com/fr-FR/Solid-London/?_cookie-check=gjj2MGxSNGdIixFf
* KO: https://solidproject.org/events
* SC: I was part in some of these meetings, i remember Mitzi prepared some intro material/slides for people who introduce Solid to their spaces. Would be good to pick up on that... just to see where that stuff was going. You can get support by other teams, like from specs for content. 

ACTION: Timea to dig for previous info
