# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2022-10-12T15:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-team>
* Chat: <https://gitter.com/solid/team>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/team>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Timea Turdean](https://timea.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)
* [Jackson Morgan](https://jackson.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)
* [Kelly O'Brien](https://id.inrupt.com/kellyo)
* Jeff Zucker
* Alain Bourgeoa
* [Osmar Olivo](https://id.inrupt.com/oz)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Virginia

---

## Topics

### Update the link for Inrupt PodSpaces

* JM: I believe this has been fixed.
* JM: Fixed in this issue: <https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/pull/735>

### Reassign responsibility for â€œThis Month in Solid"

* KOB: I have been talking to Cristy on Inrupt about this as she has done work with newsletter infrastructure in Inrupt and it might be easier to take it on as part of it. It might entail changes to tools we use. Blocker is because it is setup to encourage PRs, but makes it hard to get a newsletter out the door if we ned to train marketing people to learn how to make GH PRs. If everyone is okay, we can find a balance and request for contributions in other ways.
* JM: I am fine with that.
* KOB: Happy to explain on GH about changes. Goal is to get the newsletter back out.
* OO: +1. Cannot expect people to learn GH.

### Review:  <https://github.com/organizations/solid/settings/oauth_application_policy>

* VB: don't have access to that.
* SC: On Solid GH Org we have third-party apps - we need to review and remove those which are not approved. Not sure what "approved" means.
* JZ: More critically, which of those are still in use?
* SC: Let's review in an issue and say who and why these are needed.
* JZ: We should have documented how things are used.
* JM: Looks like three people set up most of these. Not a lot of info on GH about what they're used for.
* SC: Should we have an issue or just action item?

ACTION: JM to create issue to gather info about this.  

### Clarify solidcommunity.net admins

* Is this up to date: <https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/system-operators.md>
* Also clarify the owner and admin of solidproject.org
* Also see opened issue related to domain name: [solid/process#308](https://github.com/solid/process/issues/308#issue-1394455505)
* TT: SolidProject.org was down for 6 hours, couldn't figure out who to contact. Info was outdated. I do not know how it was solved. We need to be more transparent and have up to date info.
* JZ: Also extend this to the forum. I believe Justin is the main admin. We should have a fallback. Even figuring out who was admin took a while.
* JM: Justin also set up hostin/deployments for solidproject.org. If hard to reach, do we need to reassign?
* TBL: I believe there is a 1Password.
* OO: This is an operations problem. There is the problem of timezones. We need people to cover different time zones. Need to follow best practices on how to manage these incidents.
* SC: We need to at least document how to reach these people, and we need at least a couple people listed. We still don't know how the issue got resolved. We didn't get an update from Justin so we didn't know. Thought perhaps auto-renew kicked in.
* OO: Inrupt has an operations team and have this stuff automated. We could reuse some of our infrastucture to monitor these things.
* SC: We need different parties. Different affiliations.
* OO: I can check if we can do this. It can be a joint effort.
* AB: I think there are different levels. One related to creating accounts/paymentsThen there are things that can be delegated. I don't have access to payments of solidcommunity.net, but I can access admin of the account. Problem is here we don't have delegation for that.
* JM: If Inrupt's Ops team did this, they would need wider access to the solidproject.org.
* OO: First people to notice were Inrupt's Ops team.
* JM: No problem with Inrupt managing this if it helps keep the site online.
* OO: We monitor all things related to Solid, but couldn't do anything because didn't have access. If we're comfortable with giving access, they can act.
* JZ: I also don't have any objections. But we still should have a clear knowledge about who in the team is responsible.
* SC: No objection. Let's have 3 names of people to ping (with different affiliations) when something happens.
* OO: Might be helpful to make more formal. Solid Ops team. Add someone from Inrupt's ops team and get them the right access.
* SC: We first need to list all the domains.
* OO: Inrupt Ops team has a list. We already monitor everything. We don't administrate but we know what happens, need access to do that.
* TBL: Also would be useful to monitor ontologies we use.
* JM: Adding David from Inrupt to Solid 1Password?
* OO: Not necessarily. Maybe communicate and decide how much access is needed. Might be better to have the ops team, not one particular member.
* SC: Review <https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/system-operators.md> and follow-up in <https://github.com/solid/process/issues/308>

* TT: Is system operators accurate?
* JM: Looks outdated.
* JM: We won't take administrative action until issue is proposed in an issue in solid/team.

ACTION: JM to send an email to all interested parties.

### Community member requests a team member to speak as part of an online/offline event as his uni

> JZ: @danielbakas, a dev from Mexico is interested in promoting Solid in Latin America, requests a team member to speak as part of an online/offline event as his uni. He says "I already have members of CEPAL (Latin-America Economic Commission) and INEGI (Mexico's Data & Statistics Institute) interested in the work we all believe in" ... could be a great opportunity to expand Solid's geographic/linguistic reach

* JM: No limitation to anyone talking about it.
* TT: Volunteers?
* JZ: I will talk to him and check.

### Meeting Time

* SC: Reminder that CG weekly call will not observe daylight saving time (14 UTC). Let's make sure this meeting operates in the same way (15 UTC)
* TBL: Is it common to not observe?
* SC: There have been no objections. I see it in other working groups.
* JM: In the US there is a proposal to go to ???

ACTION: VB to ping Vincent Disco :) to change this meeting to UTC
