# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2023-07-19T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team


## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Jackson Morgan](https://jackson.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)
* Jeff Zucker
* Tim Berners-Lee

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Virginia

### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### Add Intro, Participation, Code of Conduct to README 

URL: https://github.com/solid/team/pull/37

* VB: Proposed by SC. Good to merge?
* VB: Sarven opened this PR a while ago and it's been opened for a few weeks and I think it should be merged.
* SC: What's in the PR regarding the meetings is the one we agreed for the monthly. If there are ad-hoc meetings, don't know if needs to be in the readme. If it's a weekly thing we can update the readme.
* JM: We can update by saying that ad hoc meetings can happen and ST members will be notified by calendar/chat. 
* SC: Make a PR suggestion, or merge and then update, doesn't need any additional processing, what you said it's fine.
* JZ: Fine with merging as is with that modification. 

### Create a pages/FAQ answering questions working with / inquiring about Solid, where they can be updated by the Solid Team and/or wider Solid community

* VB: Proposed by SC.
* VB: It was in response to JM's question about how to respond to emails.
* SC: We discussed in ST chat and one of the meetings. The idea is some of those recurring questions we just publicize on the website and when we get a question we refer people to that. Like "where can I get a Pod". 
* TBL: I can't believe we haven't started an FAQ. IT's a basic internet thing. Used to be associated with newsgroups.. 
* VB: I think it would be good to have an FAQ page. We should open an issue in the Solid team repository. And that's where we can find someone to volunteer. We can have a call for feedback on specs and have a topic for non-spec related things.
* TBL: The forum would be a good place to collect feedback.
* VB: Yes. We can have a pinned call for feedback.
* JM: This is more about people who come with questions at our email saying they are a company looking to work with someone... what are the right ways to direct? I responded to the email saying to post on solid forum, they posted, and then i went there and responded to email me at my email address. Originally we planned to have a pinned items with companies in the Solid community. 
* VB: On a related note, might be good to have a jobs pinned topic as well. 
* JM: And then when things are coming in we can have people come at that post. 
* TBL: We should have it in RDF :) 
* JZ: What we can have is a form in the forum feeding into ??? 
* JM: Volunteers to set that up? 
* JM: I have RDFing the website as a blocked item. We aspire to maintain a list like this, but this ened exists right now, for the moment we can have a pinned post in the forum. Once we get the resources for the RDF side we can definitely turn it. 
* VB: +1
* JZ: Re: pinned posts/facts, we need a place to direct people to different areas. Rather than having one for each need (specs, jobs, contractors...) we need... for now we can pin... long term we need a unified approach to onboarding. this fits in there. my proposal for a community of practice will solve some of this. would be a place where anyone doing things can go. natural place to refer to contractors. 
* VB: I think that sounds great. For now, I think the pinned post is cool because it's really open because we wouldn't have someone direct contractors and jobs and it's not going through intermediaries. It's not perfect and I imagine that there are much better ways of doing this, but we should let perfect be the enemy of good.
* SC: There might be overlap with Getting Started work. 

ACTION: JM to create one or more pinned post about it on Solid forum to connect businesses/contractors/jobs. 

ACTION: VB to create an issue to gather feedback on FAQ, then create the page

* SC: Is this overlapping with a W3C Business Group? We discussed this in CG call. I will link the minutes... JZ you might want to look at the minutes. Just following up. 
* JZ: Appreciate the intent, my problem is that I want to reach more than businesses. I am interested in that, but mainly not the exact way. Would like to have focus on wider community. 
* SC: TBL asked about those lines... having health domain be covered. As I understand BG it would be, not strictly for profit. Covers use cases. And giving input to standard work. 
* TBL: My question was more would it be more useful to have BG focus on healthcare? If we just have a BG is not going to stay focused... 
* JZ: I have some evidence. Meetings I help between Flanders and Portland. Not same vertical but relationship with Solid/gov is similar. Different verticals, same dealing with gov/service agencies. Thinking of a group aimed at people trying to get things done, and within they might be breakouts based on verticals or common goals. Something where they can discuss with each other how to work with Solid, blocks, etc. 
* VB: From my understanding of the business group, it might not power 100% of those things, but it's pretty close.
* JZ: Why have this in W3C and not Solid Project?
* SC: Not a concrete proposal, just bringing awareness to one of the groups/teams that would be doing that. Not intend to cover all things. If you feel is not a good idea to do under W3C that's good to discuss. 
* JZ: No objection to that but bears discussing. 
* SC: Yes.  
* VB: One does not exclude the other. Just that it might be helpful.
* JM: Topic is beyond the scope of this topic. For now we have decided  on the action.
* SC: There is https://solidproject.org/faqs
* VB: Lol. We should improve and make more prominent!

#### solidproject.org email accounts
* SC: Who can receive and send from solidproject.org emails accounts?
* SC: Who can access the sent folder?
* TBL: We have people who administrate systems. Who has access to that? 
* JM: Trying to find out.
* SC: We have info@
* JM: admin@ too. Wrangling all these accounts is more difficult than expected. 
* SC: press@
* JM: info@ is forwarded to me. 
* JM: Twitter account not sure who has access.
* VB: Ask Kelly. Marrelle did. 

ACTION: JM to find out who has access to all the emails

### Host meeting media

URL: https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/issues/791

* VB: Proposed by SC.
* SC: We have videos from meetings, bit more bulky than a document, for example. 
* TBL: Audio or video?
* SC: Main one video but could be audio. Not transcripts. Things like meetings, demos, random meeting recorded, and even in the future WG might want to publish some of their stuff. What would be a good place to put them? Can we make sure it will actually happen? solidproject.org/media maybe with dates? Bit of a commitment for the team to take on.. bandwidth/finances.
* JZ: Do you mean these should be on a physical machine or served via a solid server?
* SC: not so much about it being solid server, but under solidproject.org
* TBL: some people have a webpage as a front/frame for it and embed a vimeo thing. Should be backed up. 
* VB: Saw some Solid World people having issues watching Vimeo with an account. But even if in the future things change we might not access. Prefer to have it under our control. Like Twitter.
* JZ: I agree to have under out control. Is GH an option? 
* SC: I don't know what requirements are to host large files... is there a limit?
* TBL: Never seen GH used for this. 
* SC: Also the impression it gives are important about Solid assets so maybe better to have under our control, given what the project is about.
* JZ: Also important for standardization. Right now SW is in one place, SolidOS is in another place, etc. W should have a place to keep everything. 
* VB: Women of Solid is on YouTube :( would love to move. 
* TBL: We should have a list of all the videos we know about. Logical place is right next to the hackmd. Only reason we don't is size of the files. 
* VB: We could have like a media library page or something. Index. 
* JM: Falls under work of solidifying solidproject.org.
* VB: Does that block this? 
* TBL: Do you mean we don't need to put under solid sever? 
* VB: We do. But in the meantime we can put media files under there... 
* SC: Action would be commitment to allow solidproject.org to be a space to store this. Needs to be around long term. We cannot just remove. Needs to be archivable. If there is that commitment, we can find a way to push these media files under solidporject.org website. /media dir to do this things. Related to URI persistence policy, we have one for specs: https://solidproject.org/terms#uri-persistence-policy . The commitment is to post events/meetings to be available from here. Because I have a few videos/screencasts (from CG) I don't wanna put in Vimeo/YouTube. 
* JM: I'm in agreement conceptually. Does infrastucture need to be setup? 
* JZ: Wouldn't this fall under Admins? 
* JM: Would that not be a creator? 
* JZ: Not sure we have ability to create new folders and such. I can look at it.
* JM: Based on what I know, I would prefer to have this done when we are solidifying the website. Because I know CSS handles streaming video now. That's something I can be confident will be able to handle this. I don't know if the current infrastructure is able to handle.
* TBL: You mean bandwidth? 
* JM: Or just handling standards for streaming video. Server needs to respond in a certain way. 
* TBL: should we wait until we have a solid server?
* JM: If I go through the effort of finding out how to do this through current setup... 
* JZ: I'm in favor of waiting. Any guesstimate on timeline? 
* JM: At the moment, in the scope of the team one of the responsibilities is this... "BLOCKED" item means resources have not been allocated. Volunteers/funding. If it falls on me to build the server, for the next month I cannot. 
* TBL: Alain has done a lot of work, we could look into running CSS... 
* JM: We would need some work on the frontend.. this frontend has some requirements.. serving more like a website. Not saying such a frontend would be difficult to build, but it's more than deploying solid server. 


### Clarification on ACTION regarding Solid CoCC and solid-contrib

URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2023-06-14.md#role-of-solid-contrib

* VB: Should CoCC have purview over solid-contrib, or should they adhere to Solid CoC but providing their own contact for enforcing (similarly to CSS)?
* SC: The amount of work is a non issue for CoCC. For the time being I think CoCC could do it, unless any specific repo can opt out. Defualt is if a repo is under solid-contrib, unless you specify otherwise, CoCC oversees it. 
* VB: Should there be a reference from their READMEs to solid coc? 
* SC: Yes, that's reasonable. Each repo can have their own too. We need to lead the way. Some are not aware of CoC or didn't get around to creating. If we have a general thing there then they can link. If people want to have its own committee (like CSS). 
* VB: What about having their own CoC? 
* TBL: They should use Solid.
* SC: Agree. 
* VB: Then I will reach out to those repo maintainers. 
