# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2023-04-12T14:30:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team
* Status: Draft

## Present
* Jackson Morgan
* Alain Bourgeois
* TimBL
* Jeff Zucker
* Timea Turdean
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Jackson

### Introductions
* name: text

---


## Topics


### Changing Times

 - Virginia: Does it work for everyone to have the original time? It would be delayed by one hour.
 - Tim: Should we move both the SolidOS team meeting an hour later.
 - Sarven: Maybe we can have three meetings in a row. Make sure they're all UTC. Solid CG is currently at 14:00 UTC. Team meeting can be 15 UTC and SolidOS at 16UTC?
 - Timea: I need to confirm with the SolidOS team before making the changes.

### Open Commons
 - Jeff: A group is going through a big round of funding to build SOlid Pods for homeless people, and through these develop a plan for government agencies and social services for these Pods to deliver services. It's a great project. They've got a whole bunch of coders and want to have a Pod running. They'd want to list the Solid project as a Partner.
 - Tim: Sounds good.
 - Jackson: That sounds good.
 - Tim: Where are the based?
 - Jeff: Portland
 - Alain: Could you send links

### Michiel Becomes a Creator
URL: https://github.com/solid/process/pull/317

- Jeff: No problems
 - Virginia: +1
 - Jackson: +1
 - Sarven: +1
 - Timea: +1
 - Tim: +1
 - Alain: +1

### Timea
- Removed from the Admin role and added as a creator
- Timea: I'll do a PR Later.

### Budget

- Jackson: Can you reach out to Amy to reinstate the one password.
- Alain:

### Team Priorities
 - Jeff: We need to have a full meeting for this. We want to talk about what the next steps are for reorganization.
 - Let's do next week at 


