# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2023-05-24T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team


## Present
 * Jackson Morgan
 * Kyra Assaad
 * Osmar Olivo
 * Jeff Zucker
 * Hadrian Zbarcea
 * alain Bourgeois
---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* 

### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### SolidProject.org Assessment
* _See `meetings/2023-05-24-slides.pdf` for accompanying slides_
* KA: Kay Kim, and myself went throught the site and tried to see how to improve it from a content perspective. We started by assessing what purpose the site serves. We hypthosized that SolidProject.org hopes to explain solid for both a technical and non technical perspective.
* We identified a few high level personas:
    * Students working with Solid
    * Hobbyists with a technical background
    * Laypeople who are also interested but don't have the ability to code
    * Companies interested in Solid.
* OZ: Should we record it? 
* *Kyra starts over for the recording*
* JZ: The list of potential audiences is in my mind severely lacking.  Non-profit organizations, universities, public agencies are essential target audiences.
* Timbl: And Journalists 
* KA: Certainly, we can certainly add that too the list.
* KA: We dove into it a bit more:
    * Students:
        * Usually technical students, but they might not know about RDF
        * We'd want them to be able to set up a demo and sign up for a Solid Server
    * Hobbyists
        * People who want to make their own app
        * We'd want them to be able to spin up a server, contribute to the spec, and build an app
    * Laypeople
        * Nontechnical, but they're interested in privacy trends the read in the news and are interested in hearing about a replacement.
        * They want info at their level and play around with what currently exists.
    * Companies
        * Individuals looking for a new tech can help them in their jobs or team leads who are looking to investigate their options and compare Solid to other decentralized technologies
        * Interested in spinning up a local Solid server and gather evidence.
* KA: We took an inventory of all the pages on the site. There are a lot, and not all of them are linked by the nav bar or the footer. So to make sure the website is a source of truth, we have four general proposals on how to go about content.
* KA: the first is moving the tutorial from the site itself to github. This includes the vocabulary pages. We'd want the website to be a jumping off point to point people to these tutorials. Having SolidProject be more of a place that links out to these places will reduce the overhead burdon of keeping them up to date.
* KA: Secondly, we'd move the community content to the Forum. These would be things like the list of the Solid Apps and tools. It pushes the responsibility to developers on the forum. We'd also move the events page to the forum. It would allow for more fluidity and more accurate information.
* KA: Our third proposal would be to condense the information on the website. A lot of the pages have small amounts of text that can be combined. We'd want to clean up stale information.
* KA: Spotlight Solid World by creating a Solid World Page.
* JZ: If we do move it to a forum then we'd want to make it stand out.
* KA: Have you seen more activity on the Solid projects on the apps list
* OZ: I think we need to be very concious of goals. I don't think the goal of this exercise is "let's fix the applications page." The goal of this is "Let's get Solid PRoject.org to a respectable, clean state" Right now the suggestions stem towards, "realistically, if we're not maintaining things, let's not keep it on SolidProject.org, but at the very least, SolidProject.org is a good landing page that stays maintained."
* KA: That's certainly another point that I saw on the forum in terms of apps and tutorials that don't work. I remember trying to find working Pod Browser Apps. So, but shifting the responsibility away from the Solid team, that puts it more into the hands of the people who are responsible for that content.
* Timbl: If the solution we're using at the moment is the forum, that's a relatively easy fix. I don't think it should be a 302 redirect. There should be a box that explains that something has moved.
* Timbl: We need to take care how we add new tutorials
* OZ: On the tutorials front, github is the right place for it. The problem with the tutorials is that they're constantly up to date. We have our own tutorials at Inrupt, but with solidproject.org is that they were written years ago. If we move them to Github that doesn't solve the problem. Shouldn't we just be linking Trinpod's docs, ESS's docs, etc
* JZ: I wouldn't say tutorials on servers is what we should do. the purpose of tutorials is to address different onboarding pathways, and right now there's not an easy answer to that. I'm in favor of this move to clean up Solid Project, but we really need to think about how to support an onboarding pathway.
* Timbl: Another one is that if someone wants to try it out, you have to get an account on SolidCommunity.net, so we need some simple things that help people onboard. Some things like "get an account and get some recipes."
* Timbl: Chat would be interesting because of the discussion about mastadon and matrix.
* Alain: The problem I see with chat is that you cannot use it. I think it would be preferable to look at the technology behind Solid. If you are looking at RDF and the form of storage, we could demo fetch and notification, and I'm not sure any of the example apps are using them.
* Hadrian: I just want to say fundementally there is not difference between chat and notifications because it's the same technology underneith.
* OZ: I think this highlighted two things. First, the state of our tutorials needs a revisit from the Solid team and the state of the apps listing needs a revisit. I don't think these things block us from SolidProject.org.
* KA: The first step would be moving the current tutorials onto github, and the next step would be curating the list of the other tutorials. 
* OZ: Assuming we get the green light, we can get the work done in the next few weeks.
* JZ: So, at a minimum we need to decide where we're pointing to. We don't need to decide how we keep the tutorials updated, but we do need to decide what we need to be pointing to. We need to decide on a repo.
* Timbl: It's good to keep track of things like our YouTube videos of talks.
* Alain: Is there something like the Solid Awesome list of references and you could have a list of resources that is directly linked to SolidProject.org.
* JM: Are there any objections to giving the greenlight to allow Kyra and Kay to put together a PR for the items presented here
* *No Objections*

