# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2023-11-08T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team


## Present
* Kyra Assaad
* Giselle Wenban
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* Michiel de Jong
* Jeff Zucker
* Tim Berners-Lee
* Osmar Olivo

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Kyra Assaad


---

## Topics


### Website revamp (Kyra,et al)

Kyra shares her screen, Google Slides presentation
* KA: I wanted to review what we had presented in the 2023-05-24 ST meeting when we first proposed this.
    * Proposal #1: Moving tutorials to GitHub wiki
        * This has largely been completed by Kay
    * Proposal #2: Move apps and events listings to the forum
        * This hasn't been completed but the design of the SP.org site takes this into account
    * Proposal #3: Condense information & streamline user journey
        * Using the website as a jumping-off point
        * We will maintain the links but not host so much content
    * Proposal #4: Page for Solid World with embedded video thumbnails? 
        * We decided not to, and instead will be linking out
    * We will share links to the designs after the meeting.
    * Deadline of 1 week for feedback

[switching to Giselle to present SP.org designs]
* Homepage overview
    * We want to support people coming to the site and presenting them with the information they need
    * Overview of navigation: About Solid, For Developers, Organizations, Community, and a signup for the newsletter
    * There are four main paths that someone on the site could go down (reflected in the navigation, highlighted on the page itself)
    * Homepage is streamlined, simple and lets you go down whichever path you want to explore
    * Any comments on this page? 
        * MDJ: Looking great so far
* Solid Page
    * Disclaimer: the words on the page are taken from the existing website
    * The top header is taken from other Solid Project text. If you have changes or comments on the text, please comment on that async
    * The page tells you about Solid - right now a lot of this info is on the existing homepage
    * After the description, we wanted to link to the other pages on the site -> Organizations, Developers page, Example Applications (links to the forum)
    * Wanting to make sure to capture what a site visitor is thinking and wanting as they go through the site and what they want to learn about next
    * The graphics are also from the existing site
* For Developers page
    * We've done a lot more of keeping what we can realisticly maintain on this page, and linking out to other resources, so there isn't as much onus on the ST to keep these pages up to date
    * First there is a list of tutorials that developers might want to review and try their hand at
    * JZ: Can we move back up to the top of the page so we can read it?
        * JZ: One thing that is completely missing there is the developer tools page
        * GW: We were thinking of linking to that instead
        * TBL: Why? So we don't have to keep them up to date?
        * GW: Yes
        * KA: Didn't we have them listed on the page? Or did we take that out?
        * GW: We had originally listed them on the page, but Oz suggested to take it out and link to it instead
    * JZ: There are groups of developers who have already started and need other help - that would be more important to show on the page than Pod Hosting
    * TBL: We have YouTube videos of talks that people give around Solid - how close to the homepage are they? Do we have to specify them as Developer Tools or Community resources?
        * GW: We have some SW videos on the Communities page, and on the Organizations page we have some video highlights. They are not on the homepage right now.
        * TBL: There is a YouTube video of my WeAre Developers keynote - where would that go?
            * GW: Good question - we could add that to the For Developers page, or the Communities page. There are multiple options to explore there.
    * MDJ: I think you're trying to balance what's on the site and what's linked to - where are the tutorials?
        * KA: The vocab tutorials are in the solid/team repo wiki
        * JZ: They are in the solidcontrib repo, not in the wiki. Link: https://github.com/solid-contrib/getting-started
    * HZ: The list of tools hasn't been kept up to date on the website
        * JZ: I've been keeping the tools page up to date. I think it's unfair to say that we have not maintained the resources - it's that the website is not maintained.
        * HZ: It's not that the list is not maintained, it's that the quality of the tools isn't maintained. It's not just having a list of resources there, it's that there needs to be testing and quality assurance. 
        * JZ: I agree that it shouldn't be up to the team to decide which tools are usable and which ones are not
        * TBL: We have the same problem with apps, where apps get out of date. Having a list of pointers to them, where every now and then we try them might be good. Or we could have reviews, or a 5-star rating could be good. Having more data on whether the tools/apps are good would be useful
        * MDJ: The list on the website should be the ones we have checked to make sure they are kept up to date, and then we can have a long list where people can add their own tool if they want. So the featured ones (vetted) should be on the website, but the longtail ones could be on the forum or wiki.
        * TBL: The forum is difficult because you can't edit it. So if people google it and find the post, they might not scroll to find that the tool isn't good anymore. So wiki or HTML pages would be better. 
        * MDJ: If there's a page on the website with a link that says "Add Yours" and it links to the wiki, that could work also.
        * JZ: The repos in solidcontrib, Getting Started, Developer Tools, the people who are maintianing those repos - the readme page for each repo should have a clear overview with pointers. The Dev Tools should be listed and there would be pointers. There would be a page on GH, hopefully a HTML page, that would lead to other pages in the repos. If we did that to each of the repos, there would be a common process of getitng from the website to the GH. 
    * TBL: Whatever form it's in, it's a reasonable rule to have a pointer back on how to edit this. So that people can follow it and find the piece they're looking for. Other people can edit it. Always having a "how to change this" informatino link of some sort. Is that reasonable, Giselle?
        * GW: That makes sense. 
        * MDJ: If you follow that thinking, then this part should be inside the website, or this part should be linking to another place, I'm sure you'll take the right decisions there, no need for us to micromanage this here.
    * GW: I appreciate all the feedback
* GW: So let's move down the page a little: We have hosted Pod services, with a link to where you can get a Pod, a link to the organization and where it's hosted. This is all the same info as is on the existing site, but now it's in tiles instead of a table
    * MDJ: This looks nicer.
    * TBL: If you have it on a phone, it will presumably go down to a single column
        * GW: Yep, it would be responsive.
* GW: We wanted to keep the list of available server implementations. 
    * TBL: How about having a column there too: so that it would show whether it's commercial or open-source. We should be saying this is the recommended open-source one. 
        * OO: I think we have to be real careful about recommending one server over the other. We want to be neutral on Solid Project, so people can do their own research and decide on their own. If we try to do recommendations, we will run into trouble over time.
        * TBL: If we move NSS to CSS, we will have to remove it from the list
        * MDJ: They will have to update their readme to say that it's deprecated
        * OO: We can have a policy on whether we list deprecated servers on the list
    * JZ: I don't think we should have opinions, but I think we should list whether it's open source or not open source. Also I didn't see in the list of hosted Pod servers whether we are showing which server the hostings are using. That's important information that people need.
        * OO: I disagree. We don't have a great track record of keeping this info up to date. For example, if Solidcommunity moves from NSS to CSS, are we going to remember to go and update this website? If we start duplicating information here, we run the risk of it getting stale. I would rather link out to things than try to keep things updated ourselves. But I see your point, at a glance, there's additional information that I would like to see here, but I think there's just the risk that it won't be updated over time.
        * JZ: It could be up to each server administrator.
    * MDJ: We can have links to open source repos that are credible, when it was last tested. There are three lists: implementations, pod providers, and providers who are willing to host a whole server for you, so managed server hosting. And that's a different list. For example, Inrupt is a Pod Provider, but there are companies who need a server hosted and they would need someone to host it for them.
        * TBL: Sorry, I'm looking at solidserver.org. Who maintains that? I just see a grey background. Is it someone in the community? 
        * MDJ: It's mostly been updated by me.
        * TBL: I don't see anything, it's just grey.
        * OO: I don't think we need to debug that here. But your point is well made, Michiel. If we could get a list of managed server providers, it would be easy to add another component to that. 
    * MDJ: There will be implementation reports from the working group, so that will take over the test suite results, and that will move to the working group. So that also doesn't belong on sp.org. 
        * OO: Agreed, spec stuff should be in the working group. I believe there's a section in the website coming up that lists that. 
    * **ACTION**: Michiel, if you can get the list of solid server providers to Giselle and Kyra, that would be great. 
        * MDJ: It should be at the bottom of solidservers.org
    * TBL: There's also a list where you create a login box. We have some public list of public servers that was picked up by the login box. Ideally that would be in RDF. But does anyone know where that is? Is that what solidservers.org was for?
        * MDJ: I understand why you see the grey page - that was solidserver.org, not solidservers.org. The list to be picked up by the login dialog, that's a good one. I don't know where it is. 
* GW: At the end of this Developers page, we have some Solid examples that would link out to the list of example community applications and introductory Solid projects. Developers might be interested in this if they haven't seen them already. And then we include some links to videos on Solid on Digita, Jackson and Inrupt's videos. We can add more, we just wanted to link to some channels. 
    * MDJ: Good to link the channels, then the channels are up to date. 
    * TBL: That might be a good place to put the WeARe Developers talk.
        * GW: Yep, that would be a great place.
* Community page
    * The first section links to the forum and gitter chat. The second section links directly to the Solid Community Group.
    * Then we decided to have an entire section on events. The first section is Solid World, and has links to Vimeo, the form to apply to be a speaker, and then we would have a couple of highlights talks embedded.
    * TBL: We've had issues as to what is a Solid event and what isn't. Can we put somewhere that these aren't necessarily organized by the ST. These are events about Solid. If someone holds a workshop or meetup, we should link to it on here.
        * OO: We should talk about that, because everything that needs curating requires more work from the ST. We can take that on, but then we need to appoint someone to do that. For SW, it's easy because the ST owns SW, so it's easy to embed videos from our account to here. If someone wants to make submissinos, someone needs to review and approve the events and then add them to the site. A big principle that we've had is how can we do a v1 of the site that has the least amount of maintainance from the ST. SW is good because we can autmaote it and we own it. We can nominate someone to do the other work, but it's slightly different. 
    * MDJ: We can add the Solid Symposium on this page, it's a recurring event.
* JZ: We only have ten minutes left - how much more do we have to review?
    * GW: There's one more page, but I can record the walkthrough of the last page if we want to move to another agenda item. 
    * JZ: I am in favour of moving towards the next agenda item. I can provide more comments after.

Decision made to record the remaining site walkthrough and make videos available to team.



### Nominations to team
* Jon Wilson (proposed by Jeff to work on developer engagement)
* Mahdi Baghbani (proposed by Michiel to be an admin)

* JZ: I am in favour of nominating them to the team. Jon Wilson is contributing to the getting started part of solidcontrib. Jon has been working for months on this. I've been talking with him on the possiblilty of expanding that to having a call and improving the onboarding process. We are going to be having a regular call in for developers, the first one is this friday at 16:00 UTC.
* Mahdi has been proposed ot come on to help with solidcommunity.net.
* Are there any objections to Jon or Mahdi? 
    * OO: None from me. I think we have to specify their roles? Jon would be a Creator and Mahdi would be an Admin
    * JZ: Yes, I would say Mahdi would be an Admin. I would recommend having a new category called Engagement which would be myself and Jon, who are in charge of engaging with the community. We can have an 'Engagers' category. 
    * TBL: One of the things we can do is make them a new group in the solidproject Pod's contacts.
    * OO: We can make the PR to add the Engagers category, and then to add you and Jon to it. I have no problem with that. I think what we call the operators 'admins', then we can make that PR. I don't know if anyone objects.
    * There's arleady a PR for Mahdi so we can merge that. I will make a PR for myself and Jon. 
    * TBL, MDJ, KA, GW give thumbs up

### solidcommunity.net migration (Alain,Michiel)

* stay with NSS? move to CSS? something else?

* JZ: I agree with MDJ in the chat, that we do migrate to CSS, but there's a team that works on it that resolves the issues that we have. 
* MDJ: Jan Schill is willing to do the three small tweaks: pretty print, turtle, pim storage in the webid profile. Any PR people send, he can review them and merge them. It should be pretty easy to maintain those tweaks. It would be modular. It would just be modular that we depoly.
    * TBL: So we are not forking the CSS codebase.
    * MDJ: I would call it a module or a recipe.
    * TBL: Let's say module. 
    * OO: We'll say we are deploying a separate module for CSS. 
    * MDJ: We would be creating alternative files. We would make webid profile with pim storage in it. We can host that and submit it upstream.
    * OO: As long as CSS is at its core, we can create extensions around that. 
    * JZ: The way the recipes work currently with penny and solidos, you do an npm of the recipe, when you install it, it installs CSS. You don't have to do anything, it installs it from the CSS repo. So people would be able to install the solidcommunity CSS. People can npm it, install it and then add things on top.
* OO: I'm all for geting off NSS and moving to CSS. That makes sense. Once we do that migration, I think there's a larger conversation we have to have about solidcommuntiy. Because CSS isn't much better from NSS from a legal perspective. From a code perspective, it's much better. But I do worry that we have 250,000 Pods, and a lot of them probably have real data in them. It's not like IMEC is providing SLAs. If there's an issue, we have to think about incident response. That's true today about NSS, but lets' get that out of the way first. If there's an incident, we don't have a plan. The ST isn't a legal entity, so it's not even clear who is responsbile. We have to sit down and figure out how to mitigate. 
    * MDJ: let's keep that on the agenda.
* MDJ: Sarven in the chat warned that people who volunteer have to keep it up to date. I trust that Jan Schill is good to keep it up to date. Are we voting on this?
* JZ: I think we should get Alain's feedback first, but I vote for it. I'm up for it.
    * Thumbsup from TBL, MDJ, OO, KA, GW

Approved pending feedback from Alain

### Outreach task force including developer and practitioner engagement (Jeff)

* see https://github.com/solid/team/pull/39#issuecomment-1695990124
* quick report back and request for team involvement

### Scope of Solid Team

* see https://github.com/solid/team/pull/39

### Success reports

* we updated https://twitter.com/project_solid so this X account now follows nobody instead of following only Inrupt. Thanks to Oz and Kelly for making this happen! \o/
* we documented our current knowledge of who has which passwords, please add more info if you have it: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/assets.md \o/
* [Solid Practitioners](https://github.com/solid-contrib/practitioners) was announced! \o/
* we posted [the NSS/CSS issue in the forum](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/feedback-wanted-future-of-solidcommunity-net/7022) so we can resolve this and move on
* ... [what else did we achieve as a team this month?]
