# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2023-12-13T15:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-team>
* Chat: <https://gitter.com/solid/team>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/team>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* Kyra Assaad
* Giselle Wenban
* Alain Bourgeois
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* Michiel de Jong
* Grace

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Sarven Capadisli

---

## Topics

### Website redesign

* VB: Who will implement? Let's decide on how to move forward. I suggest not using Jekyll. HTML+RDFa would be nice.
* VB: Design review, how's it going?
* GW: Good. May need to check GitHub to see if missed anything but otherwise compiled everything and will upload the revised version to InVision. Any particular issue anyone would like to talk about re GitHub: <https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/issues/816>
* SC: Main thing is feedback is for the design, I don't know what process we need to have to evaluate that. I like the idea of updating the design, I know the original design had some content/process related changes and I raised that there shouldn't be assumption that approval of the design entails changes in the content or process. If the design proves us a way of looking at content/rpocess changes that's fine, but that information needs to flow back into existing issues/PRs. Don't want to conflate what we're reviewing. Thre are existing issues are PRs.
* MdJ: We can change the first line.. .??? For the rest there are some changes. You said you don't know whether there's changes about process?
* SC: Which sentence?
* MdJ: "Solid is thr third layer"
* SC: that's an example. I gave a thorough response. It could be any content.
* MdJ: Can you give links to any points of the design you want to block?
* SC: As an example: Solid World. I am raising an issue against changes entailing content.
* MdJ: If you have improvements that's constructive but blocking something...
* SC: Are we reviewing design, content changes..?
* MdJ: It's a design and changes the structure and things on it.
* SC: If we're designing what we're looking at, no problem. Introducing new information that's not part of this design.
* MdJ: Why can't someone contribute information?
* SC: Separate considerations. There are existing issues.
* MdJ: As long as we don't get into a situation where we can't update the website.
* SC: Would you like me to update my comment with issues/PRs that this is covering?
* KA: Given your feedback, we went through it, approve or changed. So we did try to address that, but if you can go back and update re issues/PRs that we shouldn't be addressing in this design. Or other content things that needs to change.
* SC: Okay. The designmight propose something like thumbnails for videos would look like this,e tc. but if that design introduces things about Solid World, I do have an objection because there's an existing PR on it.. I don't believe that because of something like that being not progessing and making changes on the design and introducitng something that is coming from the Solid Team. I can approve the design on how things might look.
* KA: Usually when we do design refresh we do IA, UX, layout and functionality. I ack that you don't want to conflate decisions re open issues/PRs. This design would serve as a resolving those. I ack your concerns and we've done what we can.
* HZ: We also understand your distinction between design and content but it is hard to draw the boundary between the two. How do you think we can resolve this and move forward.
* SC: Are you aware <https://github.com/solid/process/pull/321> and past agreements on the ACTIONs assigned to you?
* HZ: Yes.
* SC: Resolve that and then we'll talk about what to do about whether emphasize/de-emphasize SW.
* HZ: You're saying this PR is a blocker for the design of the site?
* SC: If the design is saying ??? index/thumnails of videos, okay. But don't introduces when you have this PR.. resolve.. I don't want to get into the SW discussion. If Inrupt wants to own SW that's okay, but cannot control on one hand (agenda etc) and then approved by the Solid Project.
* VB: I suggest we leave out Solid World. Clearly not agreeing on what kind of an event it'll be. We have an events page any way that's from anyone.
* KA: Want to call out SC's use of language. Request that tone is tonned down.
* HZ: I don't think SC answered the question. Do you think 321 is a blocker for this design issue? I'm not sure if we agree on definition of design. Everything you say is hitting one definition of I'm familiar with - which is cosmetic. KA talks about UX, and don't htink it fits into your definition.
* SC: If you want SW content on the website, PR is a blocker. Second question: I made a distinction between the design (list of videos, etc) it's not about SW per se but more a list of videos. I don't have an objection to that design.
* MdJ: The process shouldn't get in the way of getting things done. Points are taken into account now time to deploy. I think we should move forward with coding in HTML. We can rework things in HTML and make PRs there. We should not stop the process.
* SC: That's misinterpreting what I'm saying.
* VB: That's not include SW until this is resolved but go ahead with the rest of the design. We can even have a dedicated meeting for that. I'd also object to it being a community event because it is not.
* SC: Noting a bunch of thumbs up and no objections.
* VB: Who is going to to do it? I said HTML would be easy for everyone to contribute. Do we like HTML?
* SC: Some thumbs up.
* KA: Question re RDFa. Would we be able to have a generic HTML shop do it and then we / whoever has knowledge to do the RDFa?
* VB: Yes, we can do progressively.
* VB: Who's going to do this?
* KA: We hadn't next steps were. The most efficient way would be to hire someone to do it.
* MdJ: I was thinking of Fiver.com.
* KA: I used another site. htmlburger.
* SC: This is an opportiuniyy for us to consider how we position ourselves as a team/project, who we're working, how much we're paying, whether it's fair, as opposed to finidng the cheapest options. Part of me is concerned about the impression it might give..
* VB: Agree.
* SC: I know some of these services get out really quick, but for others it's not a great way of competing and only getting a fraction of their time.
* KA: That is a lovely thought but we don't have funding so if we had funding we'd be able to have a criteria who we choose. We're kind of at the mercy of it. When I used the community survey from last year, that MIT would pay for it.. but not in the end. If we have the luxury, great, if not...
* HZ: I think we are overly concerned about perception and optics and that gets in the way. There is no contender so why not take it.
* VB: I don't think it is about perception but fairness. I'd prefer to pay someone a fair fee. In this case, SC's concern is about being fair and agree.
* MdJ: Fair point and agree. One thing we can do who has a lot of good reviews and pay them maybe double. A friend of mine tried to do these freelancer websites so you're competing with non-rich countries. If you pay twice with going rate, then it'd be fair. Goes directly to the designer and small for the platform.
* MdJ: We could always get funding for these kinds of things. So, anything less than a 1k shouldn't be a problem.
* SC: Sounds like you're familiar with these services/funding possibilities. Is this something you'd be interested in looking into?
* MdJ: I'll have a look at Fiver.com. I think for 100 USD we can get it from invision.

### Scope of Solid Team

URL: <https://github.com/solid/team/pull/39>

* VB: I am taking over this PR (did before taking a break, now I have time to process).
* SC: Room claps.

### CoCC members should have moderator/admin access to forum and all matrix channels

* VB: As per CoC:

> The Code of Conduct Committee have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, and will communicate reasons for moderation decisions when appropriate.

* VB: We need access to moderate but doesn't mean that we'd be moderating everything.
* VB: Need one of the moderators to give access.
* KA: Re quote of the CoC, what is the distinction of that and moderators.
* VB: Only within the context of the CoC. Moderators may be other things, the concerns that the CoCC doesn't have.
* KA: Agree.
* VB: I don't know what kind of rights they have.
* SC: No one in CoCC can have access to moderate the W3C mailing list. That's out of our authorization. On the Solid Forum, I don't need access myself. For Matrix and GH it's fine.
* MdJ: <https://github.com/solid/team/pull/43>
