# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2023-03-08T16:30:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-team>
* Chat: <https://gitter.com/solid/team>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/team>

## Present

* [Jackson Morgan](https://jackson.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)
* Alain Bourgeois
* Timea Turdean
* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* TBL
* Osmar Olivo (Oz)
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent.
  Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone,
  recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of
  Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md),
  [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional
  Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across
  disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and
  meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Jackson Morgan, Timea

---

## Topics

### update on Teams
- Timea: I had time to change the teams in github based on the issue Jackson posted. I will link the ticket: https://github.com/solid/team/issues/34


### Content
- Tim: When it comes to content, do we have the CNBC blog. We should have public talks (like the one John and I did with CNBC in beyond the valley https://www.cnbc.com/beyondthevalley/) And can we add Noel's talk.
- Timea: Can you send us the link? Also, I don't know where the proper location to post those is.
- Tim: Does the homepage work? 
- Timea: Noel's talk doesn't make sense to be in press or Solid events.
- Tim: We should change "Press" to "Solid in the News"

Action Item: Change "Press" page to "Solid in the News" and that's an appropriate place to put Noel's talk (https://fosdem.org/2023/schedule/event/sovcloud_from_zero_to_hero_with_solid/). Post Noel's Talk and the CNBC talk (https://art19.com/shows/beyond-the-valley/episodes/d0f4cf85-991d-4331-9599-e4e35e092e45).

Ticket: https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/issues/768

### Solid Team meetings on Solid CG calendar
- JM: is there an official policy to join this meetings? There were people sending their CV wanting to join (this was on the website but was removed now)
- Tim: this is a focused meeting. 
- Alain: there is a misunderstanding between joining solid and soldi admins. It is not subject of the team here..
- Virginia: it was confusing. I saw that Michiel was interested to be a 'creator' (https://github.com/solid/process/pull/317) and thought that had been approved, so I invited him to the Matrix room. But due to not knowing how matrix works I don't know how to cancel the invitation. 
- JM: what are we?
- Tim: What are we? We're the core responsibility for the people that we can trust with passwords and the mission of the organization. So typically we make the strategic decisions, but we also run the open servers. Everything should be delegated to people apart from the limited number of things that this core group is responsible for. We manage domain names, the site, and HR violations (like violations of terms of behaviour).
- Virginia: I'm not sure how to remove an invite to Solid Team. I think that Justin is the only person who has admin access.
- JM: this team is to administer core things to Solid: such as CoC violations. 
- Virginia: If the meeting minutes are public what's the point in keeping channel private.
- JM: should we discuss new processes how people can join?
- Alain: i asked Tim to include me, at that time. 
- Tim: creators and editors are supposed to get work done. They would be given access to make changes to website, and review. Supposed to be people who also work on specs but it broke. 
- Timea Question: IF this call is only for admins -> would the CG meetings be for.. all other type of members in the community such as editors, creators... ?
- SC: Solid Admins is intended to help with all sorts of stuff in the Solid project but don't have particular role under the CG.
- Timea: Conclusion is: That everyone who is the creator/editor is invited to these meetings. If creators have access to work with PRs, it makes sense to have them in the meetings.
- Sarven: What you said is historically not true. Everyone who has a role in the solid process has a role in this meeting, not just admins and editors. It is in the minutes.
- Timea: Okay, sounds good. Let's keep it like that.
- Oz: we always talk just one after the other. Should it be time to review all the groups?
- Virginia: how about permissions on this channels? It seems like just Justin is the only one with moderator access to Matrix channels. It would be good if he gives access to more people. I pinged Justin but I do not get an answer. 
- JM: in terms of admin stuff - this I mentioned before to Amy. When teh credit card swapped - we do not haev acces to the 1Password -> Justin has access.
- JM: it would make sense to do a more indepth audit of roles. we did a broather audit recently. We can do a in depth one. 
- Timea: We started off with "should this team meeting with publicized in the community group calendar." Seeing how the talks are evolving and because we said this meeting is supposed to be for "admins," "creators," "editors," etc, my opinion is that it shouldn't be in the community group calendar.
- Sarven: I agree. The Solid project is broader than the community group. And none of these rules are acknowledged in the community group. If it helps for people to know about this meeting, then maybe it makes sense, but given it's invite only, I don't think it belongs in there. 

ACTION: Oz to ask Justin to give roles for solid team channel.

ACTION: After we have access make sure that all other editors, creators know about the channel and meeting.

ACTION: agenda topic for next time: re-audit solid team structure (editors, creators) -> JM

- oz: it is more like a strategy. More of a sitting back and asking 'should we be doing things we are not doing today?' 'Is it working the way we intended?' 
- Oz: are the things put in place achieving what we want. Having a strategic conversation. Usually these meetings are multi-day type of events. We need to figure out how to.
- JM: I agree we need this. We are just talking lately about what should be the process on this. Sit down and ask what are the concrete goals? What needs to happen.
- JM: I can create a more in-depth proposal which is beyond who is in what and how the evolution of teams should be. I will propose to have that discussed at next meeting.

### infrastructure cost review 
URL: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10TBdQmphdUikNPCx0SYyfd07BtBMF23YEqt0u6VRKr4/edit?usp=sharing
some economy should be possible (200$ per month) :-1: 
- SC: we pay for solid.community -> and we should immediately stop paying for that droplet.
- Payment for 1password:
- Oz: solidcommunity.net Digital ocean is up to date.
- Alain: we are paying for things not used. I received the data. They are not domains, they are droplets. I am not sure who is in charge of it. We pay some money for some reason. 
- SC: please review it and consider not paying it. 
- Alain: only Jackson has access maybe
- JM: I need whoever holds the 1Password account I do not have access to anything. Amy is the right person to talk to right?
- Tim: yes. Most things she pays. 
- Alain: we are also pay for AWS and I do not know why.
- Tim: for solidproject.org
- JM: I thought that is not there... I will look into it. 

ACTION for JM: when we have access to 1Password to check payments. 

### Regaining control of main solid Matrix room
URL: https://matrix.to/#/!SWuPNCVLGJhfHYZIxj:gitter.im/$cLVcSxfNu1b12WXDw8hOw9kWaf9HvLutZPFJsXWSZj0
- SC: I noticed that the solid/chat on gitter now maps to a new matrix channel but the owner no one knows, nor are they active in the community. If you look at the channel info you can see this. 
- Tim: it seems to be Gitter Badger.
- SC: It's "perfylist" something. I followed up and I think Admins should follow up. There is a whole thread. I contact the person to hand it over but there is no response. Matrix people are happy to help us such that whoever clicks on solid/chat is redirected to a channel here the Solid Admins have control of. There are maybe also other channels where only one person from admin team has rights. But that is easy to resolve.
- SC: we need to create a new room (an alias) and redirect to it. 
- Virginia: next topic is in a similar problem. 
- JM: I am not an admin on gitter. We are definitely see a lot of access control problems.
- SC: I want to suggest: Admins please read the thread and familiars yourself to figure out. You will probably come to a conclusion about what to happen next. If you need ot at all: here is our decision - I can get in contact with them. It is just a chnage in teh alias, and reasigning teh alias. 
- SC: See also perhaps: https://app.element.io/#/room/#gitter_gitter:gitter.im/$3WjaHbkfA60DC7g2OrXQ0xjb08xRtJiflPlULmLglNU

NEXT TIME: 

### Regaining control or creating a new room for Women of Solid under solid/

* VB: I believe I was the only admin in the old gitter room, but I lost my account. Timea and Sharon are in a similar position with their accounts (need to be let back in). The room is private so only members with access could add us back in, but there's still the issue of no admin. Create a new room? How? 
