# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2023-01-11T16:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-team>
* Chat: <https://gitter.com/solid/team>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/team>

## Present

* [Jackson Morgan](https://jackson.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)
* Alain Bourgeois
* Timea Turdean
* Kyra Aasad
* TBL

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent.
  Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone,
  recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of
  Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md),
  [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional
  Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across
  disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and
  meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Jackson Morgan, Timea

---

## Topics

### Repo security policy

URL: <https://github.com/solid/process/issues/310>

ACTION: VB to remind ppl to add comments on the issue above directly.

* TT: did anybody look at it?
* JM: It looks liek noone did.
* TT -> postponed to next time

### Start a translations project

URL: <https://github.com/solid/team/issues/25>

* JM: any updates?
* TT: people involved are not here today

### Make sure the solidproject.org home page has pointers to all the relevant github organizations now we have split them, explaining the relationships

URL: changes are recorded at <https://github.com/solid/team/issues/24>

ACTION: Jeff to assemble the creators and add Oz in the process then tell
Jackson so he can update the roles.

ACTION: Jeff to tackle the extra page that mentions split out repos as from
<https://github.com/solid/team/issues/24>.

* TT: postpone until we get an update from Jeff.

### New Roles for Authentication

https://github.com/solid/team/issues/33

* TT: the fine granularity of who can renew domains is not captured.
* JM: that is not part of this
* TT: in that case I agree with the list captured by JM.
* TT: do we also update the readme of the teams ?
* TT: ok there is not such a doc. 
* JM: No, it is just to reflect that into Git.
* TT: The domain renewal and other topics is a separate: https://github.com/solid/process/issues/308 -> topic for next time.
* JM: do we need approval from people who do not attend meetings?
* AB: maybe just list the differences between the lists to make it easier for people to make decisions. 
* JM: I made that clear I though.
* AB: Where do we make it public?
* JM: where?
* TBL: on Solid chat?
* AB: so people do not say I was not informed. 
* JM: I will past it to Solid chat gitter.
* AB: the System operators - what is the change there? It is teh people who have access to solidcommunity.net server, to manage the content.
* JM: is it the people who have ssh access?
* AB: I think you JM are also on it. I am the only one going frequently there. And Justin. He is teh creator basically. 
* JM: I will change that as a suggestion - and chnage name of team to Solid Community .net maintainers, so we know exact.
* TT: and it looks we have 50% , @bourgeoa , @timea-solid, @jaxoncreed
* TT: Tim as director has last say here. 

AGREEMENT: Alain & Tim & Timea & Jackson
ACTION: Jackson to make the changes proposed.

### I suggest to strive for 50+1% of team agreement on important changes

* TT: I suggest to strive for 50+1% of agreement on changes.
* TBL: speak now or forever hold your peace.
* JM: the post itself is around for so long for exactly that.
* JM: since this is public.
* TT: marketing for the team and activities and team meeting before ideal is reached
* JM: 50+1% is difficult to do. We could advertise the group but depending on the people who are not active, to catch them and ask for agreement is not doable. We need active administrators to get things moe organised
* TT: 

AGREEMENT: strive for 50+1% admin team agreement.
AGREEMENT: TBL: about the principals you can argue that you have to have majority or total consensus. But only on day to day stuff then you can argue you can just have 2,3 reviewers. 
AGREEMENT: TT: and as the director of the Solid organisation -> on really important changes Tim should have the last say.

### MIT cannot pay for Solid anymore
* TBL: we need to switch the credit card for digital ocean.
* TBL: W3C moved away from MIT.
* JM: are you saying W3C funds would work?
* TBL: no. 6k EUR is needed. 
* TT: how about Ghent university? given that we try to move to CSS on solidcommunity.net
* TBL: it is a good idea but not sure they will see it.
* JM: when is the ddl?
* TBL: quickly! Amazon and digital ocean bounce will go down.
* JM: I can transfer from a technical perspective.
* TT: I can talk to Ruben to put me in contact with someone at the Solid Lab if we want.
* TBL: I am prepared to write the check for first year. W3c or WebFoundation need to create an account.
* JM: i hint there is a process at W3C for providing funds - how long?
* TBL: I think this is a strategic question. I am glad to ask the CEO and to teh Chair at W3C.
* TT: can we ask you to use your card Tim?
* TBL: I can ask W3C, i prefer that.
* JM: can we sent a DDL? we need to act fast.
* TT: I remember Amazon to be beginning of the month.
* JM: can we set a ddl to end of the week to get a response from W3C and eventually get a credit card.
* TBL: we should rush. 
* JM: otherwise we use something interim.
* TBL: in energency we can use the card. I can get Amy to help. 
* AB: to go to open collective so that people can make donations?
* JM: the solid community hosting costs?
* AB: yes! People and companies. 
* TT: can you Alain look into it?
* AB: test suite has done it so I think it is not hard. We do not have a foundatins. We need to talk to Tim about it. 

ACTION: Prio 1 - TBL to contact W3C and get an aswer beginnign of the week. 
ACTION: Prio 2 - if there is a No answer or no answer - ddl 16th - TBL or JM to add theirs.
ACTION: JM and Tim to collaborate on it!

### Transfer DevOps access of SolidProject.org to Inrupt

* TT: postponed until we have members (Oz) who can give an update.
* JM: I send a plan for transfer but there is no approval so I asked again.
* JM: I have access to everything Justin has access. 
* AB: you can opne the ports I need!
* JM: yes!

ACTION: Oz to give an update.

## DONE ACTIONS:
### Third Party app access update <https://github.com/solid/team/issues/31>


## NEXT TIME:
### Domain name renewal and co
<https://github.com/solid/process/issues/308>

### Founding an official Solid organisation 
* one reason is for public donations - example of such donation platform: Open Collective
