# Solid Project: Solid Team

* Date: 2023-07-12T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-team
* Chat: https://gitter.com/solid/team
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/team


## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* Oz
* Kyra Assaad

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Virginia

### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### Add W3C Solid CG Charter
URL: https://github.com/solid/process/pull/323
* SC: Related to team scope and revising the Solid process itself. Process we have is not deemed to be useful in the CG. Details about stuff we noted long ago about how specs should be worked on, proposed, reviewed, published, etc. This does not represent reality, we need something more concrete and current in the CG. Very similar to other CG/WG charters. We have 6 "official" reviews, 5 approvals and 1 objections, and many people making suggestions and making clarification. Feedback has been taken into account, including from objections. I can elaborate on that and this Team can give insight.
* JM: ST itself doesn't do spec development. Does this proposal affect the Solid team?
* SC: That's a question to the community. One consideration is, people want to do wide community outreach, or network implementors with related verticals, in the Solid space. All these activities, different stakeholders, how are they aware of the advancements of the CG, how are we working with implementors. Whether networking implementors should be something the CG does. Should CG do the outreach of WG/SolidOS / anything? Or is that something the ST should look into. We all want it, trying to see where it fits.
* JZ: I brought up those points. My understanding that the CG up until now has been related to the ST by having specified the process that the Director will appoint editors. ??? does away with that and whether that's a good thing should be debated. If there is going to be a complete separation between the groups, and if the spec group is going to really put all of related to implementors engagement off to the team, then my feeling is that leaves the CG very isolated. We need a CG that actually addresses the whole community. Whether that's in W3C CG or not, there needs to be something. 
* OO: I agree with JZ to some extent. My understanding is ST is the high level umbrella, and groups are part of it. To me, the CG, editors, is under Solid Team. Tim appointed Chairs of CG.
* SC: That didn't happen.
* OO: The process says so.
* SC: It does not.
* OO: We can have ST have the ultimate umbrella. I was surprised to see new charter proposal basically separating the CG from the Solid Team without us discussing here first.
* SC: the Solid process only talks about editors and proposals. it does not appoint editors of the spec. If you need data as to why the current process is broken for the CG I am happy to do that. There is a serious need to change the Solid process. My argument in the PR is instead of trying to hack through the process, we need a proper charter like any other W3C groups. Once we have that we will extract the parts of solid process pertaining to specs development. This is so that CG operates with clear guidelines. Is it a debate that this is needed? 
* TBL: There's no debate that the process is broken. What happened was sometimes we'd meet but nobody else turned up. That's why Editors group didn't work. Lots of things have changes. Having the idea of ??? didn't work, CG is now changing because we have a WG starting. I don't want to have an open election for the CG Chairs. I want to add two more chairs. These two people have skills that are useful in particular. Making sure that the CG actually interfaces with the community. This group (Solid Team) is the executive group for the Solid movement. I want to appoint two more CG Chairs now. It'll be helpful. Putting together the process for Solid project. Jeff and Hadrian would be chairs of the CG.
* JM: I feel like this discussion is complicated. Can we get a concise description of the points of disagreement? 
* VB: At first we were talking around whether outreach to the community should be something that the community group should do. Most of us in the PR said that it shouldn't. And Tim says that his disagreement is the part that talks about chair elections. I personally like that. Tim mentioned that he prefers to appoint hadrian and Jeff as co-chairs of the elections.
* SC: There are things I agree on with Tim and others I disagree. One is the un-democratic approach. The solid process does not say that the director appoints chairs, but the chair can. I have the right to pick people I prefer with a track record in the CG. I chose not to do that, and instead have an open and demoractic process, alongside how other groups do it. With all due respect Tim, when you elected folks to do things in the past, they have not done that work, and it fell on me and put a lot of stress on me to do things that were beyond my time and expertise where people should have contributed. When you name people to do things I don't see that any of the workload that the CG requires is going to be lifted. Not to take away from the quality/skills of the people you're proposing. The proposal right now in the CG is there. If there's a response to be made against that charter, it should be made there, put on record, say this is your position. We don't want an open election and so on. 
* SC: The Solid Team does not oversee everything under Solid Project per se. ST has zero say on WG. W3C will have 100% say on that. 
* SC: People have been appointed to do things that have not been done, including WG charter, which we rewrote in the CG. 
* SC: I am open to discussing with you Tim. And you can put your foot down. But there's a line between what your role is and what a chair is, etc. I want to be fair. If this project is to be successful, we need to let go of some control and be fair. Put emphasis on open community. I am sorry I am frustrated. Happy to discuss longer. 
* VB: I just want people to keep in mind that we're all trying to do the same thing. We're trying to make Solid successful.
* OO: It's not about the PR. I agree with 90% of the PR. It's about the way that this was done. Tim has been saying since December that the CG and announced that he had plans. 
* VB: Was there an announcement that two new chairs would be appointed in December?
* OO: No, back in December as part of kicking off the WG Tim said once the WG is finalized the CG will change. He said while the CG isn't going away some changes will happen. In the background, we've been working on getting the WG where it needs to be. A couple weeks ago PAC said we expect the WG to be formed at TPAC. The minute Tim said "let me reach out to some people and figure out additional chairs", within 24 hours this new charter gets proposed. 
* SC: Who did he speak to?
* OO: Me Jeff Hadrian. 
* SC: Changes are in the pipeline and what those changes are is anybody's guess, not on record. What better place to do that than a PR and a proper charter?
* OO: You're playing the "not on the"
* VB: I surprised because I recently found out about this. I would have liked to know that [that Hadrian and Jeff were being appointed].
* SC: There's no dialogue about this.
* SC: I went open and tried to be transparent and democratic. If you think this is inappropriate because how it came to be, I think having backchannel agreements between a few people that think they know how it should be and assign chairs is inappropriate. 
* JZ: I just want to say in terms of what Sarven said about other people in the CG. I personally have no intention of replacing them of claiming that I know as much about the specs as you and others. My view of this is what this is is not taking away from what the CG has done, but enlarging what the CG can do. My role would not be replacing you or other people in developing the specs, it would be extending around that through the CG. I understand you see this as replacing you.
* SC: No. Nobody thinks those things shouldn't be done. You're a great person to do that too. I want you to do these things, you make great points. This could have been done for years. Why now? Because the charter is proposed? I haven't seen you scrutinize the WG charter to this level. What bothers me, is you could have been doing outreach under CG umbrella for a long time, but it's not there. The additional kinds of networking or outreach you want to do beyond the community group needs higher coordination with other groups under Solid project, is the consensus in the thread. CG cannot have the ability to do it, it won't scale, we won't be able to achieve it. Proposal is solid Team or other team looks into doing serious outreach that is necessary. 100% percent behind you Jeff putting your years of experience in making that happen. 
* JM: To be frank, there are some things that are valuable and some things bringing up "i don't like how this was brought up as opposed to the content". I don't think I care about that. What I care about is how the solid team going to be structured in the future. One point: are these two proposals of the WG in direct contrast to the CG that was proposed here?
* SC: No jurisdiction problems. WG will take on work items, CG will work on new or existing items.
* JM: ST itself, under this new structure, what are the jurisdictions.
* SC: There needs to be better coordination about CG's needs. Some of the things suggested by JZ falls under Business Group. That gives you certain abilities under W3C. Other group members have considered how to coordinate between those and CG. Instead of dumping. everything under CG. Example: when you land in a CG group discussing use cases, we found that info is good not just for CG but Solid Project so we made a PR and put that information in solidproject.org for the Team to review.
* SC: How we improve communication and outreach is up to the team to put up guidelines. As if you want to negae with CG, WG, SolidOs, this is how to do it. 
* TBL: SC, you repeatedly ask why not and not earlier. Think about the future state of CG. Earlier the CG had to produce the solid protocol. I agree the CG process has been ineffective. Now we are doing it because we have a clear signal that WG is happening. 
* TBL: the stability of the solid protocol has to be more stable than anything else. One of the things that changed is one of the most important specs have moved. That's why now.
* SC: We're on the same page. Charter is not doing something we don't want. What better way to communicate with outside world other than having a charter? If you want to reject the charter, go back to process, re-edit the process..? You want to fix the web. We're all with you. I'm here, not employed, out of my passion and my respect to Solid and you, for 8 years, if I didn't care I would have walked out. It's not that hard for me to apply my skills to others stuff. To fix the web is not just going to be the WG for two years and publish some specs implement some stuff and cross out fingers we'll fix the web. It's going to take a long period. The way to approach the CG is to have a solid understanding of what this ecosystem will be towards fixing the web. I am trying to fix the CG/charter so that we are clear on how to get there. It'll probably bring us closer to what we want, based on what other groups are doing. If anything, the charter is a mature and open way to doing things. Let's eat our own dogfood and doing all the way. We're not even operationally able to put our own website on a solid server. Despite all these companies having these amazing products. If you want to take my opinion into account, I think that perception is very important for CG/WG. 
* JM: Last point is beyond the discussion. We have added to scope as one of the actions we want to take. 
* JM: Personal conflicts aside, Oz you said earlier that you agree with 90% of the CG charter. What's the 10%?
* OO: I can add comments to the PR. It's not about the PR. It's more about that there was a plan that we wanted to put in place, and then this happened. 
* SC: Why wasn't the CG chair consulted on these plans?
* JM: You also said this doesn't affect the WG. 
* OO: The WG will impact the scope of the CG.
* SC: Fixing the web is not gonna be just a two year thing. Specs we're handing off, yes, those will not be worked in CG, but problem around authz, notification, query interfaces... client-client related stuff (which is already covered in Scope in detail) those problems are open to the CG to incubate, if they are mature enough maybe those can move to WG. Why are we bothering with a CG if not needed? 
* OO: We can discuss the PR in the PR. 
* SC: Apologize to everybody if I have been harsh, but I have to say it. Tim, I want to reconnect with you. If you want to have a meeting where we walk through some things. But it needs to be mutual. I know you're busy. If you want to talk, we can, Your input is always important to the group. I cannot go to the CG and say "Tim wants x, y, z". The group needs to take everything on equal grounds. 
* JM: Looking forward to seeing comments in the PR. I am still unclear and to how it affects scope of CG/WG. It sounds like there might be some problems there.
* JZ: I don't think that's at all part of the discussion but rather CG/ST.
* TBL: And whether CG makes specs or it does community outreach. 
* TBL: you can't talk about people in GitHub chat. It's not appropriate. Some of these things are differences in style between people that don't get on. 
* JM: Are you saying there was a CoC violation? 
* TBL: Certain individual was name on Github. I would rather not discuss. 

### Add Intro, Participation, Code of Conduct to README 

URL: https://github.com/solid/team/pull/37

* VB: Proposed by SC. Good to merge?

### Create a pages/FAQ answering questions working with / inquiring about Solid, where they can be updated by the Solid Team and/or wider Solid community

* VB: Proposed by SC.

### Host meeting media

URL: https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/issues/791

* VB: Proposed by SC.

### Clarification on ACTION regarding Solid CoCC and solid-contrib

URL: https://github.com/solid/team/blob/main/meetings/2023-06-14.md#role-of-solid-contrib

* VB: Should CoCC have purview over solid-contrib, or should they adhere to Solid CoC but providing their own contact for enforcing (similarly to CSS)?

### Adding pointers to videos (including Inrupt videos) to solidproject.org

* VB: Proposed by TimBL. 


### Updating Team scope

URL: https://github.com/solid/team/pull/39

* VB: Proposed by JM.

### Report back from Jeff's meeting with Flanders/Portland implementers; proposal for a Community of Practice Group https://github.com/solid/team/pull/39#issuecomment-1631688002

* VB: Proposed by JZ.

### Pin Call for Feeback in Forum? see https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/issues/797

* VB: Proposed by JZ.
